[LB] Break out best practices into separate how-to guides (#2033)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/load-balancing/src/content/additional-options/deploy-containerized-applications.md

---
title: Containerized applications
order: 8
pcx-content-type: how-to
---

> 

Author: Did a bit of copy-editing here, but mostly just a lift and shift from the bottom of https://developers.cloudflare.com/load-balancing/best-practices.

Will come back to address this page in a future ticket, but for now it's not worth the effort of restructuring.

# Deploy containerized applications

Cloudflare’s Load Balancer distributes global traffic intelligently across Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) and Amazon Web Services EC2 (AWS). Cloudflare’s native Kubernetes support provides a multi-cloud deployment that is transparent to end users.

![Application deployed across Google Kubernetes Engine and AWS](../static/images/best-practices-2.png)

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, be sure you have the following:

- Access to Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
- Access to AWS
- Docker image

> - A domain on Cloudflare (on the Free, Pro, or Business plan) with a Load Balancing subscription, configurable in the Traffic app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A domain on Cloudflare (on the Free, Pro, or Business plan) with a Load Balancing subscription, configurable in **Traffic** on the dashboard
```

## Deploying a containerized web application on Google Kubernetes Engine

> We will be using [Google Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell/) interface, which comes preinstalled with the gcloud console, docker, and kubectl command-line tools used below. If you use Cloud Shell, you don’t need to install these command-line tools on your workstation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be using [Google Cloud Shell](https://cloud.google.com/shell/) interface, which comes preinstalled with the gcloud console, docker, and kubectl command-line tools used below. If you use Cloud Shell, you do not need to install these command-line tools on your workstation.
```

![Use the Cloud Shell in Google Kubernetes Engine](../static/images/best-practices-3.png)

Set default configuration values by running the following commands:

- `gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID`
- `gcloud config set compute/zone us-west1-a`

## Deploying a web application

1. Create a container cluster to run the container image. A cluster consists of a pool of Compute Engine VM instances running Kubernetes.

   - Run the following command to create a three-node cluster (our cluster name is _camilia-cluster_): `gcloud container clusters create camilia-cluster --num-nodes=3`

   - It may take several minutes for the cluster to be created. Once the command is complete, run the following command to see the cluster’s three worker VM instances: `gcloud compute instances list`

1. Deploy the application to the cluster. Use the kubectl command-line tool to deploy and manage applications on a Kubernetes Engine cluster.

>    You can create a simple nginx docker container, for example, using the following command* (camilia-nginx* is the name for the deployment):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can create a simple nginx docker container, for example, using the following command (*camilia-nginx* is the name for the deployment):
```
